+++
title = "Intercollegiate Math Tournament 2026"
date = 2026-02-28
+++

The Intercollegiate Math Tournament is excited to present its first iteration
at Columbia University!

As the first ever in-person team-based math contest for undergraduate students
from universities all across the world, ICMT is a collaboration of graduate
students and alumni organizers of existing middle and high school math
tournaments such as BMT (UC Berkeley), SMT (Stanford), HMMT (Harvard & MIT),
PUMaC (Princeton), and CMIMC (CMU).

Detailed information on the schedule, rooms, and other day-of-tournament details
will be released closer to the event date.

## Registration Timeline

Registration opens on **Wednesday, October 15 at 9:00 PM ET**.

This year, registration will be on a first-come, first served basis until
capacity is reached.

| Dates        | Registration         | Price Per Student | Notes                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| 10/15 - 12/1 | Regular Registration | $15               | Shirts are included with the cost of the ticket. |
| 12/1 - 1/31  | Late Registration    | $25               | Shirts are not guaranteed.                       |

Registration fees are only refundable in extenuating circumstances.

## Student Eligibility

You must be an actively enrolled undergraduate student at an accredited college
or university, have not yet received a bachelor's degree, and may participate in
ICMT at most four times.

We welcome all students from both domestic and international universities.

You don't have to be a math major or particularly have any formal mathematics
experience, just a passion for mathematics.

If you have questions about your eligibility to compete, please email us at
team@intercollegiatemathtournament.org.

## Teams

Teams are of 4 students. Teammates do NOT have to be from the same university.
All teammates must choose to compete in the same division: Division A for the
seasoned team or Division B for the novice team. We strongly encourage students
to review the sample problems to determine which division they'd like to compete
in.

If you do not have a team of 4, ICMT reserves the right to merge partial teams
to form complete teams of 4.

## How to Register

Most pre- and post-contest tasks, including registration, team assignments,
signing of waivers, and viewing score reports, may be completed at ContestDojo,
an online math competition platform.

Any questions about the ContestDojo portal should be directed to us at
team@intercollegiatemathtournament.org.

## Hotels and Travel

Teams are responsible for arranging their own travel and lodging. Columbia
University has negotiated discounted room rates with a few local hotels.

AirBnBs are heavily regulated and scarce in NYC. For more affordable lodging,
teams should look at options in New Jersey along the Northeast Corridor
NJTransit line, or in Jersey City/Hoboken along the PATH line. Please note that
check-in will be at 8 am at Columbia.

We strongly recommend taking public transportation, as driving through Manhattan
is a terrible experience. Should you choose to drive, these are the parking
decks recommended by the Columbia Visitor Center.

Columbia University is accessible from all 3 of NYC's major airports (JFK, LGA,
EWR) via NJTransit or subway. From NY Penn Station, Moynihan Station, 42nd Port
Authority Bus Terminal, take the Uptown 1 train to 116th St.

## Financial Aid

ICMT has extremely limited financial aid funding, reserved for students who can
demonstrate significant financial need (e.g., Pell Grant recipients or students
with equivalent documentation). If selected, financial aid entails reimbursed
lodging (Friday night hotel room) and the registration fee after the
competition.

Because of these constraints, we strongly encourage teams to seek departmental
or external funding from their schools to cover travel and lodging expenses.
Financial aid from ICMT is not guaranteed and will be awarded on a highly
selective, case-by-case basis, and will likely cover only partial travel, if
any.

Financial aid applications will be released on ContestDojo, and students will
have a week to confirm acceptance or request a refund of registration fees.

## Schedule

Please note that the official schedule for the tournament may have different
times.

**Friday Night:**

- ~7 PM to 10 PM Optional Mini-Events to be confirmed. Sponsor events,
  Integration Bee, and other social events!

More information will be released closer to the event date.

**Saturday:**

- Check-in is around 8:00 AM and the contest will end around 7:00 PM.
- A detailed event schedule will be released closer to the event date.

## Lunch

The Columbia Statistics Department has graciously sponsored lunch for all participants.

There will be a vegetarian option and non-vegetarian option available.

## Contest Format

Keep as is (Times, Scoring, Tiebreakers, # Questions are all unconfirmed.)

All answers should be submitted according to the acceptable answer formats
document and common notions document. Answers not submitted in the listed
formats will be graded as incorrect, even if equivalent.

## Activities

Our top sponsor, HRT, will be running an activity after lunch.

Please keep a lookout for information about optional Friday-night activities,
such as an Integration Bee and social events run by other sponsors!

Updated information about activities will be released closer to the contest
date.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Are calculators or other reference material allowed?

Graph paper and calculators are prohibited, but protractors, rulers, and
compasses are permitted. Blank white scratch paper will be provided for all
participants. All answers must be exact, reduced, and simplified. Illegible
answers will not be graded. Cheating in any form will not be tolerated. Any
violation of the rules will result in immediate disqualification and your
university will be notified.

### Can advanced middle or high schoolers enrolled in pre-collegiate courses compete?

No. Due to Columbia campus event restrictions, minors are not allowed to
compete.

However, there are a plethora of challenging in-person/online competitions for
the advanced middle and high school level that we recommend: Berkeley Math
Tournament, Stanford Math Tournament, PuMAC (Princeton), Harvard-MIT Math
Tournament, Penn Math Contest, Caltech Math Meet, Duke Math Meet, Johns Hopkins
Math Tournament, and Mustang Math Tournament.

### Can I compete without an association with an institution?

No. You must be an undergraduate student without a bachelor's degree, or
international equivalent, at an accredited college or university.

### Can I compete with a bachelor's degree, or international equivalent?

Unfortunately, not. ICMT is only open to undergraduate students who have not
received a bachelor's degree yet. If you're a graduate student with a love for
mathematics, we invite you to email us at team@intercollegiatemathtournament.org
to apply to join the organizing committee!

### How are awards handled?

Awards will be physically presented to contestants at the closing ceremony. Cash
scholarships will be electronically deposited to winning Division A student
accounts; team prizes will be equally divided among each present member of the
team. ICMT reserves the right to ask for proof of undergraduate enrollment
before dispersing scholarships.

### Can I attend virtually?

Unfortunately, ICMT will only be offered in-person this year.

### I am an international student and need a tourist visa to the US. Can you provide a letter confirming my registration?

Yes, please email us at team@intercollegiatemathtournament.org.

### Do my team members have to come from the same university? Do we have to be in the same year?

No. Team members do not have to be from the same university or be in the same
year. However, all team members must compete in the same division.
